


		    HOST A DEEP WEB IRC SERVER


Today we are going to setup an IRC server on the deep web using TOR
so that we can chat anonymously.

So IRC stands for Internet Relay Chat. It is an extremely lightweight
text based way to communicate. Essentially a chat room. Its popular
among hackers, software engineers and tech nerds in general.

Now you can also combine IRC with a proxying service like TOR to
allow you to chat with people anonymously without the far of being
censored or being judged.

All we need is a need computer running linux (or a bsd), and an
internet connection. We'll use a Debian server for our demo.


	$ sudo apt install -y tor inspircd


Here we will use the IRC server 'inspircd'.

Once apt has installed the software we will need to configure
inspircd.


	$ sudo ed /etc/inspircd/inspircd.conf


A few things to note here:

	First, the server name, this section can be set to whatever
	you want. If you are hosting this server on the regular web
	and not in the deep web you should change "irc.local" to a
	fully qualified domain name (FQDN).

	Another thing to look at is the Bind Address (default to
	127.0.0.1). Since we are using TOR this default is exactly
	what we want.

	The diepass and restartpass should be changed as these used
	to kill and restart the server.

	Further down we will see the operators defined. Their
	passwords should be changed (and probably their usernames).

	In addition, the files section lists the motd and rules
	files.


Once you have changed the settings, save and exit your editor.

We should then change the message of the day so we know that our
server is working. Lines consisting of a single '-' is still shown
and can be used to pad out the motd in the output to make it more
visible.

The next thing is to start our IRC server.


	$ sudo service inspircd start
	$ sudo service inspircd status


Let's install another package. This time a client:


	$ sudo apt install -y irssi


(or you could install hexchat if running X11 your server).


And run your client:


	$ irssi

	/connect irc.localhost
	/quit


And we can see that the motd has changed.

We are now in the IRC chat on our local server. But no one else can
log into it from outside our localhost.

The next thing we need to do is connect it to TOR.


	$ sudo ed /etc/tor/torrc


Scroll down to the section called hidden services. We need to change
2 lines.


	HiddenServiceDir	/var/lib/tor/hidden_service/
	HiddenServicePort	6667 127.0.0.1:6667


Uncommenting and also changing the port to 6667 (irc). Save and
exit, then start TOR.


	$ sudo tor


(We wil just start it from the command line for now - later we
should start it as a service on boot).

In another terminal:


	$ sudo cat /var/lib/tor/hidden_service/hostname


This outputs the .onion address of our TOR hidden service.


INSTALLING A GRAPHICAL CLIENT


	$ sudo apt install hexchat



In Hexchat, click ADD in the network list to add another server.
Then click EDIT. In the servers section, click ADD and paste in our
onion address. also click DELETE to remove the original server.

Next goto settings->preferences and then to Network Setup. Make
sure your server is 127.0.0.1 and port is 9050 (TOR) and that the
proxy type is SOCK5.

We should see that we can connect to our server over TOR.




