


		       HOW TO DITCH YOUTUBE



Youtube has issues. From advertising, to privacy, censorship and
way more. With regards to creators, you will likely have heard about
the algorithm, being demonitized etc. There are valid complaints.


	--------------------------------------------------------------


			     VIEWERS


Lets first discuss ways to watch Youtube itself in a better way.


- Choose the best browser, eg. on Android, browsers like Brave allow
  background video playback. Firefox on the desktop allows picture
  in picture. Brave also has a builtin ad blocker that blocks Youtube
  ads, and for other browsers we recomend 'uBlock Origin'.

- If you want to download a video for offline viewing, you can goto
  youtubepp.com (BUT USE AN AD BLOCKER AS THIS SITE IS VERY INVASIVE);
  or use youtube-dl on Linux.

- there are 3rd party tools to access your Youtube videos. So you
  can wwatch Youtube content, but not from the official website or
  app.

  Android       - Newpipe

  Desktop       - SkyTube, and FreeTube

  You can also use 'VLC Media Player' to watch Youtube.

  Additionally FFMPEG is a FOSS tool you can use to download Youtube
  videos.

  iOS           - on iOS you aren't going to fair well. There are
		  some 3rd party iOS apps for Youtube but your
		  mileage will vary

Some people ask "How do I stay subscribed to my favourite channels?".
Some of the clients mentioned above supports local subscriptions
(eg Newpipe).

An EASIER alternative is to use RSS. There are a number of good RSS
reasers out there. It can be a bit tricky to setup, but is very
easy to use afterwards.


	--------------------------------------------------------------


			     CREATORS


Well you are mostly stuck on Youtube, so play by the rules.


ALTERNATIVES

There is currently NO "best" Youtube alternative:


- LBRY.TV       predominently using the front end 'odysee'. It's
		good for users and makes it easy for content creators
		to migrate.

- BITCHUTE      Bitchute has a messier interface and content can
		be quite clutters. No mobile apps

- PEERTUBE      a decentralized Open Source platform. Being
		decentralized, every instance has their own rules.


