



		       AUDITING WITH LYNIS
			  ( cisofy.com )


Lynis is a tool for auditing, system hardening and compliance
testing.

Lynis doesn't by itself make your system more secure but it does
prove useful in identifying issues and ranking systems on common
security problems.

Lynis should be used to generate a report that can be used as a
battle plan to make your system more secure. Lynis runs tests but
you have to act on those tests to correct the system configuration.



SUPPORTED OS

Lynis runs on almost all UNIX based systems including: AIX, SOLARIS,
FreeBSD, HP/UX Linux, MacOS, NetBSD, NixOS, OpenBSD, Solaris and
others. It even runs on the Raspberry Pi and IoT devices.



LYNIS SCANNING

Lynis scanning is modular and you can add plugins into it.

Your results are also going to be stored in a logfile (lynis.log).

For enterprise customers there is Lynis Enterprise for which the
core developers maintain a set of plugins. It is priced reasonably
($3 per system).

Typically most demonstrations of Lynis are shown without much
configurationTypically most demonstrations of Lynis are shown without
much configuration.

You do have the option of disabling or white listing certain tests
that do not apply to you and your specific system.

Whitelisting is important as when you run Lynis in the future after
you establish a baseline, on subsequent runs you will not see the
same warnings that have been deemed irrelevant on your system. There
are several ways to install Lynis, eg on an Ubuntu fresh install:


	$ cd /usr/local/ $ sudo git clone
	https://github.com/CISofy/lynis.git $ cd lynis

	$ sudo lynis audit system


Note:   you can do an 'audit system', a 'remote audit' or even
'audit dockerfile'.


There are different modes for lynis including '--forensics' or a
'--pentest' (this shows points of interest for pentesting).


	$ sudo lynis audi system


On our example system our baseline hardening index = 64, running
264 tests.

The reason why this score might be higher than your base install
of Ubuntu is that my install uses separate partitions for /, home,
var, boot, tmp.

Typically Lynis will report as a potential security risk if you
just have the one partition. A lot of Linux distros just dump
everything on one partition (/).

Each fail/warning/suggestion comes with a webpage link to a document
about the issue.


