



		    STAYING ANONYMOUSE ONLINE


4 years. That is how long a group of hackers were able to stay
inside te Marriot Starwood network without being detected or
discovered.  How on earth does an unauthorised party stay undiscovered
for this long?



			PHYSICAL SECURITY
		 (or Operational Security OPSEC)


Guess how many failures it takes to be sucessfully identified? One!

Ross Ulbricht, 'the Dred Pirate Roberts' who founded the site Silk
Road got caught by simple failures in OPSEC (he bragged on a blog
and used his real photo for fake id he'd bought).

It is essential for those who wany to remain anonymous to be aware
of their online and offline habits. Including when and where they
use their computers. Their writing style; their social media posts,
and their social interactions in general.



		  ACQUIRING AN ANONYMOUS MACHINE


Buy a machine with the most untraceable and mobile trail possible.
Ideally, this is a laptop which is bought for cash of cryptocurrency.
Next completely wipe the operating system. Buy a USB stick to load
a live operating system. A live OS commonly has no permanent storage.

But you would also want to enable full disk encryption to be on the
safe side. When installing a live OS it is important to stick to
an OS distribution like Linux's TAILS OS.

TAILS OS has a bunch of privacy focused features that allows you
to stay anonymous.




          ANONYMIZE YOUR IDENTITY AND NETWORK CONNECTION


There are several steps to accomplish this:

Any type of unique or pseudo unique identifier is going to be harmful
to someone wanting to remain anonymous.

From the hardware perspective on of the most harmful and well known
identifiers is a MAC address. A MAC address is a serial number
issued by the device manufacturer. It is used to identify a device
on a local network, and can be used to identify the geographical
location of a machine in some cases.

MAC address spoofing (aka MAC address anonymization) uses different
MAC addresses to anonymize your identity. There are different ways
to accomplish this, such as built in programs, customisable scripts,
and installable tools. In Linux TAILS OS the MAC address is temporarily
changed to a random value for each new session.

In addition to MAC address randomize your IP address. An IP address
is assigned by your ISP (or the ISP of the network you connect to).
To accomplish this, services such as VPNs, Proxies and TOR can be
used (BUT ALL WITH STRICT CAUTION). Each of these methods introduces
intermediaries with assumptions of complete trust.

In order to ensure anonymity you must never trust a central authority.
But with modern architecture of the internet, that is not really
realistic. For VPN you could install OpenVPN onto a machine not
associated with you. A better solution is the TOR project; running
either a TOR bridge or using a OS distribution like TAILS OS that
has it built in and enabled by default.



                           PROXY CHAINS

A program like proxychains can be used to route internet traffic
through a chain of proxy servers on top of the TOR network.

Configure proxychains by editing /etc/proxychains.conf and enabling
'dynamic_chain' instead of 'static_chain'. Also proxy DNS requests
with 'proxy_dns' and set the default [PROXYLIST] to:

	socks4  127.0.0.1       9050 
	socks5  127.0.0.1       9050
	# default set to TOR

Start the TOR service:

	$ sudo service tor start

Then we can use proxychains:

	$ proxychains firefox www.duckduckgo.com

We can test for DNS leaks:

	www.astrill.com/dns-leak-test

This is a basic way to layer both thte TOR network and proxychains
on top of one another.




                    SEPARATION OF ENVIRONMENTS

You need to separate your anonymous environment from your everyday
use environment.

A classic example of machine separation is machine virtualization,
or containerization.

Use emphermeral or temporary environment when conducting things you
want to remain anonymous.

It is NEVER a good idea to use ONE ENVIRONMENT for ALL activities.

Computer machine isolation ensures evidence can be contained and
destroyed and can easily be achieved through virtualization.

Also you can use a bouncing server as a step towards any online
server you connect to regularly. This allows you to connect via SSH
to the bouncing server then SSH onwards to your remote server after
you have anonymised it.  The remote server will have all the utilities
and documents you use that you want to keep anonymous. If the
bouncing server it on a different server quite quickly and continue.

It is important that you are also randomizing your network connection
by using public WIFI (see wifimap.io for open public networks).
Randomize WHEN and WHERE  you are connecting to these wifi networks.



                       COVERING YOUR TRACKS


For any servers you operate/use on the internet it is important
that you limit or remove any logs etc.

It is also common to hide activity with common network connections
and protocols such as DNS tunnelling.

It is possible to route your activity through DNS (see DNSCAT2).




