



		      YUBIKEY PGP MIGRATION



Q.      I am currently using Yubikey 4 with my GPG subkeys on it.
	My main key is stored within Kleopatra.

	I am planning to move over to a Yubikey 5, and I was wondering
	if it is possible to still be able to decrypt emails with
	my new subkeys generated for the new Yubikey.



The important question is how you generated your PGP key and subkeys.


As explained in the docs there are two ways of generating keys:

1.      You can use a live distro such as TAILS OS to generate your
	keys on an air-gapped machine (without networking). Then
	you make backups of your keys to removeable storage like a
	USB key or harddrive that you then keep in a secure place.

2.      The other option is to generate the keys directly on the
	device (option recommended by Yubico). This is extremely
	secure, but has a major drawback: you cannot backup the
	keys. If you lose or destroy the Yubikey, you lose your
	keys.

With this second approach migration IS NOT POSSIBLE as the private
key cannot be exported from a Yubikey. This option should be avoided
unless you know your key is going to have a limited shelf life.

If you choose approach #1 transferring your keys is quite easy. You
don't even need the old Yubikey, as you can just boot your live
distro (eg TAILS OS) and import your main key and subkeys from your
backup (external storage) and then write them to your new Yubikey
with the GPG command 'keytocard'.

In order to maintain access to your existing emails and encrypted
files you must keep the current key and subkeys but the hardware
itself does not have to stay the same, it could be another Yubikey
or smartcard as long as you have that external backup (You did make
MORE than ONE copy?).

If you really must change your PGP key, in theory you could decrypt
files and re-encrypt them with a new key but with emails it gets
more complicated as they are often stored in an mbox format. Even
if they are available as standalone files on an IMAP server (for
instance). It's not the whole file that is encrypted but just some
or all of the mail body. The mail headers are still in clear text.

In Thunderbird I can copy the whole message source with Ctrl-U. I
then pasted this into a new blank text and was able to decrypt it
with the command line gpg tool with the old key. But you don't get
all the headers but a stripped down version.



