  9.6 Why does the Backspace key invoke help?

   The Backspace key (on most keyboards) generates ASCII code 8.
   C-h sends the same code.  In Emacs by default C-h invokes
   help-command. This is intended to be easy to remember since the
   first letter of `help' is `h'. The easiest solution to this
   problem is to use C-h (and Backspace) for help and DEL (the
   Delete key) for deleting the previous character.

   For many people this solution may be problematic:
     * They normally use Backspace outside of Emacs for deleting
     the previous character.
       This can be solved by making DEL the command for deleting
       the previous character outside of Emacs. On many Unix systems,
       this command will remap DEL:

	stty erase '^?'

     * The user may prefer the Backspace key for deleting the
     previous character because it
       is more conveniently located on their keyboard or because
       they don't even have a separate Delete key. In this case,
       the Backspace key should be made to behave like Delete. There
       are several methods.
	  + - Some terminals (e.g., VT3## terminals) and terminal
	  emulators (e.g.,
	    TeraTerm) allow the character generated by the Backspace
	    key to be changed from a setup menu.
	  + - You may be able to get a keyboard that is completely
	  programmable, or a
	    terminal emulator that supports remapping of any key
	    to any other key.
	  + - With Emacs 21.1 and later, you can control the effect
	  of the Backspace and
	    Delete keys, on both dumb terminals and a windowed
	    displays, by customizing the option

		normal-erase-is-backspace-mode

	    or by invoking

		M-x normal-erase-is-backspace

	    See the documentation of these symbols (see Emacs Lisp
	    documentation) for more info.
	  + - It is possible to swap the Backspace and DEL keys
	  inside Emacs:

		(keyboard-translate ?\C-h ?\C-?)

	    This is the recommended method of forcing Backspace to
	    act as DEL, because it works even in modes which bind
	    DEL to something other than delete-backward-char.
	    Similarly, you could remap DEL to act as C-d, which by
	    default deletes forward:
(keyboard-translate ?\C-? ?\C-d)

	    See Swapping keys, for further details about
	    keyboard-translate.
	  + - Another approach is to switch key bindings and put
	  help on C-x h instead:
(global-set-key "\C-h" 'delete-backward-char)

;; overrides mark-whole-buffer (global-set-key "\C-xh" 'help-command)

	    This method is not recommended, though: it only solves
	    the problem for those modes which bind DEL to
	    delete-backward-char. Modes which bind DEL to something
	    else, such as view-mode, will not work as you expect
	    when you press the Backspace key. For this reason, we
	    recommend the keyboard-translate method, shown above.
	    Other popular key bindings for help are M-? and C-x ?.
       Don't try to bind DEL to help-command, because there are
       many modes that have local bindings of DEL that will interfere.

   When Emacs 21 or later runs on a windowed display, it binds the
   Delete key to a command which deletes the character at point,
   to make Emacs more consistent with keyboard operation on these
   systems.
