
https://www.tarsnap.com/utility.html

# Tarsnap Utility

Tarsnap is priced as a utility: You pay for what you use. Use twice
as much storage and bandwidth? You'll pay twice as much. Use only
10 MB of bandwidth and 20 MB-months of storage? You'll pay less
than one cent. Since making money from rounding errors doesn't seem
fair, Tarsnap's accounting is performed in attodollars ($10-18) and
rounded in the user's favour.

Most physical utilities, like electricity, natural gas, and water,
have fixed monthly fees for "being hooked up to the grid" in addition
to their usage-based fees. Tarsnap doesn't — because, let's face
it, there is no physical grid to be hooked up to. Having accounts
sit around idle doesn't add any significant cost to keeping the
service running — so why should you pay for it either?

Similarly, many online services offer a selection of fixed-price
monthly "plans" to choose from; these have two major disadvantages.
First, they force you to predict how much usage you'll have ahead
of time; and second, unless you're incredibly lucky, you'll always
be paying for some capacity which you're not using. This second
issue is particularly pronounced for small users, who often use
only a very small fraction of the quotas permitted under typical
monthly plans.

Thanks to Tarsnap's linear pricing scheme and its lack of fixed
monthly fees, over half of Tarsnap users spend under $1 per month
on storing their backups. This would be economically unfeasible if
every user's credit card was billed each month; instead, Tarsnap
works on a prepaid model (like prepaid mobile phones). Before you
can start using Tarsnap, you need to deposit $5 or more into your
Tarsnap account; and then you can add more money whenever you want.
Just like a mobile phone, if your account balance falls below zero,
your account will be disabled; if your account balance stays below
zero for more than a week, your account will be permanently removed.

We have collected a few examples of deduplication efficiency, which
illustrates how much money our linear pricing can save.
	
	
	
